README.md, before:

replicaters
=======

The basic goal of this project is to have blocks of code that replicate within
an allocated portion of user process memory.

The advanced stages of this project is to have these code blocks acting like
organisms.  They compete for memory space and CPU time, a simulated survival of
the fittest with asexual and sexual replication (crossover and mutation of
genes).

--------------

To have code organisms replicating and competing in a memory space a chunk of
standalone code is required.  The organisms are not true organisms if they are
simply making use of the host functions.

I will use assembly, compile with nasm, strip the .text section with my
disas.py program and then read and write this 'shellcode' to the memory space.

--------------

When working on the idea of each germ having its own stack frame in the pool I
realised that if a germ faults, the whole program goes down.

Solution is of course to spawn a child process to execute our germ code.  If it
faults - clear the memory space and remove from the list.  I will use sys_clone
instead of fork as this will allow me to provide each organism with its own
stack.

-------------

####x64 delta offset trick:

* Seems that there is a change to how nasm x64 handles labels:

            call label
        label:
            pop  r15
            sub  r15, label


With x64 this produces obj file with:

            1:   e8 00 00 00 00          call   6 <label>
        0000000000000006 <label>:
            6:   41 5f                   pop    r15
            8:   49 81 ef 00 00 00 00    sub    r15,0x0


X86 would have had 'sub <reg>,6'...  I haven't been able to google an
explanation for this.
    
This means the delta offset trick doesn't work with x64 assembly..  To get
around this I am returning to x86 asm.

####CLONE_VM:

Using clone with the CLONE_VM seems to scramble the memory space that I have
written the germ into. This should mean the child is more like a thread and
shares the memory space...

Seems that a qword is written twice (0xf7dd6cd8 0x00007fff) to the start of
the block of memory.  Address to some structure..

USE PTHREAD YOU FOOL!

####Callback trouble:

We can pass a callback as an argument to the germ, the address is contained in
rdi (edi).

The issue arises on return from the callback function, we land on the correct
address but the memory space is scrambled...

Commit message:

WORKING!!  x64 asm with label addressing working.
Required to pass it through LD with -Ttext 0 and then strip the text section!

README.md, after:

replicaters
=======

The basic goal of this project is to have blocks of code that replicate within
an allocated portion of user process memory.

The advanced stages of this project is to have these code blocks acting like
organisms.  They compete for memory space and CPU time, a simulated survival of
the fittest with asexual and sexual replication (crossover and mutation of
genes).

--------------

To have code organisms replicating and competing in a memory space a chunk of
standalone code is required.  The organisms are not true organisms if they are
simply making use of the host functions.

I will use assembly, compile with nasm, strip the .text section with my
disas.py program and then read and write this 'shellcode' to the memory space.

--------------

When working on the idea of each germ having its own stack frame in the pool I
realised that if a germ faults, the whole program goes down.

Solution is of course to spawn a child process to execute our germ code.  If it
faults - clear the memory space and remove from the list.  I will use sys_clone
instead of fork as this will allow me to provide each organism with its own
stack.

-------------

####x64 delta offset trick:

* Seems that there is a change to how nasm x64 handles labels:

            call label
        label:
            pop  r15
            sub  r15, label


With x64 this produces obj file with:

            1:   e8 00 00 00 00          call   6 <label>
        0000000000000006 <label>:
            6:   41 5f                   pop    r15
            8:   49 81 ef 00 00 00 00    sub    r15,0x0


X86 would have had 'sub <reg>,6'...  I haven't been able to google an
explanation for this.
    
This means the delta offset trick doesn't work with x64 assembly.  Nasm leaves
the label addressing to the linker.

Solution - run it through LD with -Ttext 0 and then strip the text section!

####CLONE_VM:

Using clone with the CLONE_VM seems to scramble the memory space that I have
written the germ into. This should mean the child is more like a thread and
shares the memory space...

Seems that a qword is written twice (0xf7dd6cd8 0x00007fff) to the start of
the block of memory.  Address to some structure..

USE PTHREAD YOU FOOL!

####Callback trouble:

We can pass a callback as an argument to the germ, the address is contained in
rdi (edi).

The issue arises on return from the callback function, we land on the correct
address but the memory space is scrambled...
